Add spawn tutorial (#490)
nervosnetwork/docs.nervos.org: website/docs/script/spawn-script.mdx

---
id: spawn-script
title: "Tutorial: Spawn Script"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import TutorialHeader from "@components/TutorialHeader";
import Tooltip from "@components/Tooltip";
import ScriptTools from "./_ScriptTools.mdx";

# Tutorial: Spawn Script

<TutorialHeader time={"5 - 7 min"} tools={"script"} />

The design of the syscall spawn function draws inspiration from Unix and Linux, hence they share the same terminologies: process, pipe, and file descriptor.
The spawn mechanism is used in ckb-vm to create new processes, which can then execute a different program or command independently of the parent process.

> In the context of ckb-vm, a process represents the active execution of a RISC-V binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the context of CKB-VM, a process represents the active execution of a RISC-V binary, which can be located within a Cell.
```

> This binary can be located within a cell. Additionally, a RISC-V binary can also be found within the witness during a syscall spawn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, a RISC-V binary can also be found within the witness during a Spawn syscall.
```

A pipe is established by associating two file descriptors, each linked to one of its ends.
These file descriptors can't be duplicated and are exclusively owned by the process.

> Furthermore, the file descriptors can only be either read from or written to; they can't be both read from and written to simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File descriptors are single-directional: they can be used for reading or writing, never both.
```

> In this tutorial, you will learn how to write a full Rust example using Spawn syscall to call a Script from a Script on CKB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to write a complete Rust example using Spawn syscall to call a Script from another on CKB.
```

```rust name="spawn-script/contracts/caller/src/main.rs"
fn caller() -> Result<(), error::Error> {
    let (r1, w1) = ckb_std::syscalls::pipe()?;
    let (r2, w2) = ckb_std::syscalls::pipe()?;
    let to_parent_fds: [u64; 2] = [r1, w2];
    let to_child_fds: [u64; 3] = [r2, w1, 0]; // must ends with 0

    let mut pid: u64 = 0;
    let place = 0; // 0 means read from cell data
    let bounds = 0; // 0 means read to end
    let argc: u64 = 2;
    let argv = [
        CStr::from_bytes_with_nul(b"hello\0").unwrap().as_ptr(),
        CStr::from_bytes_with_nul(b"world\0").unwrap().as_ptr(),
    ];
    let mut spgs: SpawnArgs = SpawnArgs {
        argc,
        argv: argv.as_ptr(),
        process_id: &mut pid as *mut u64,
        inherited_fds: to_child_fds.as_ptr(),
    };
    ckb_std::syscalls::spawn(
        0,
        ckb_std::ckb_constants::Source::CellDep,
        place,
        bounds,
        &mut spgs,
    )?;

    let mut buf = [0; 256];
    let len = ckb_std::syscalls::read(to_parent_fds[0], &mut buf)?;
    assert_eq!(len, 10);
    buf[len] = 0;
    assert_eq!(
        CStr::from_bytes_until_nul(&buf).unwrap().to_str().unwrap(),
        "helloworld"
    );
    Ok(())
}
```

> One thing to be noted here is that each pipe we creating can only be either read from or written to. We create two pipes, one is for child process writing, parent process reading, one is the opposite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that each pipe can only be used for either reading or writing. To facilitate communication, we create two pipes: one for the child process to write and the parent process to read; the other does the reverse.
```

```rust
let (r1, w1) = ckb_std::syscalls::pipe()?;
let (r2, w2) = ckb_std::syscalls::pipe()?;
let to_parent_fds: [u64; 2] = [r1, w2];
let to_child_fds: [u64; 3] = [r2, w1, 0]; // must ends with 0

// ...

let len = ckb_std::syscalls::read(to_parent_fds[0], &mut buf)?;
```

## Implementing Callee

> We need to create the same thing here, a `error.rs` file and a `callee` function in the `main.rs`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to create the same components here: an `error.rs` file and a `callee` function in the `main.rs`:
```

            SysError::LengthNotEnough(_) => Self::LengthNotEnough,
            SysError::Encoding => Self::Encoding,
            SysError::WaitFailure => Self::WaitFailure,
            SysError::InvalidFd => Self::InvalidFD,
            SysError::OtherEndClosed => Self::OtherEndClose,
            SysError::MaxVmsSpawned => Self::MaxVmSpawned,
            SysError::MaxFdsCreated => Self::MaxFdCreated,
            SysError::Unknown(err_code) => panic!("unexpected sys error {}", err_code),
        }
    }
}
```

```rust name="spawn-script/contracts/callee/src/error.rs"
mod error;
use alloc::vec;

pub fn program_entry() -> i8 {
    ckb_std::debug!("Enter callee contract!");

    match callee() {
        Ok(_) => 0,
        Err(err) => err as i8,
    }
}

pub fn callee() -> Result<(), error::Error> {
    let argv = ckb_std::env::argv();
    let mut to_parent_fds: [u64; 2] = [0; 2];
    ckb_std::syscalls::inherited_fds(&mut to_parent_fds);
    let mut out = vec![];
    for arg in argv {
        out.extend_from_slice(arg.to_bytes());
    }
    let len = ckb_std::syscalls::write(to_parent_fds[1], &out)?;
    assert_eq!(len, 10);
    Ok(())
}
```

> The `callee` function logic is simpler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `callee` function has a simpler logic.
```

> It received the arguments using `ckb_std::env::argv()` and inherited the pipe using `inherited_fds`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It receives arguments using `ckb_std::env::argv()` and inherits the pipe using `inherited_fds`.
```

> Then it use `write` syscall to write the concat result to the pipe:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then it uses the `write` syscall to write the concatenated result to the pipe:
```

        .build();
    let outputs = vec![
        CellOutput::new_builder()
            .capacity(500u64.pack())
            .lock(lock_script.clone())
            .build(),
        CellOutput::new_builder()
            .capacity(500u64.pack())
            .lock(lock_script)
            .build(),
    ];

    let outputs_data = vec![Bytes::new(); 2];

    // prepare cell deps
    let callee_dep = CellDep::new_builder()
        .out_point(callee_out_point)
        .build();
    let caller_dep = CellDep::new_builder()
        .out_point(caller_out_point)
        .build();
    let cell_deps: Vec<CellDep> = vec![callee_dep, caller_dep];

    // build transaction
    let tx = TransactionBuilder::default()
        .input(input)
        .outputs(outputs)
        .outputs_data(outputs_data.pack())
        .cell_deps(cell_deps)
        .build();
    let tx = context.complete_tx(tx);

    // run
    let cycles = context
        .verify_tx(&tx, 10_000_000)
        .expect("pass verification");
    println!("consume cycles: {}", cycles);
}
```

First, build the Scripts:

```sh
make build
```

Then, run the tests:

```sh
make test
```

## Test on Devnet

> After testing our Scripts, we can be more confident to test them in a more realistic environment.
> 
> We will use `offckb` to start a devnet and deploy the Scripts, then test the Scripts by sending a transaction to the devnet using `offckb` REPL.
> 
> 1. Start the devnet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After testing our Scripts, we can be more confident to test them in a more realistic environment.

We will use `offckb` to start a Devnet and deploy the Scripts, then test the Scripts by sending a transaction to the Devnet using `offckb` REPL.

1. Start the Devnet
```
